Term,Definition
Parenchyma,"Unspecialized tissue involved in storage, respiration, and photosynthesis."
Apical growth,"Growth from root and shoot tips, aiding in resource acquisition."
Cuticle,Waxy outer layer preventing desiccation.
Stomata,Openings in plant tissue allowing for gas exchange.
Antheridia,Male gamete-producing structures.
Archegonia,Female gamete-producing structures.
Alternation of generations,Life cycle with multicellular haploid and diploid stages.
Sporophyte,Diploid stage in plant life cycle that produces spores.
Gametophyte,Haploid stage in plant life cycle that produces gametes.
Embryo,Early stage of development that grows into a sporophyte.
Roots,"Underground structures for stability, water, and nutrient absorption."
Shoot system,"Above-ground plant structures, including stems, leaves, and flowers."
Lignin,Organic polymer providing structural support to vascular plants.
Vascular tissue,Plant tissue responsible for the transport of water (xylem) and nutrients (phloem).
Xylem,Tissue transporting water from roots to the rest of the plant.
Phloem,Tissue transporting nutrients and sugars throughout the plant.
Bryophytes,"Non-vascular plants, including mosses, liverworts, and hornworts."
Liverworts,"Non-vascular plants, often with liver-shaped gametophytes."
Hornworts,Non-vascular plants with horn-like sporophytes.
Mosses,Non-vascular plants that typically grow in moist habitats.
Flagellated sperm,Sperm cells requiring water for movement.
Oogamy,"Reproductive method involving a large, non-motile egg and small motile sperm."
Gemmae,"Structures for asexual reproduction, common in liverworts."
Sporophylls,Leaf-like structures that bear sporangia.
Sori,Clusters of sporangia on the undersides of fern fronds.
Microphylls,"Small leaves with a single, unbranched vein."
Megaphylls,Leaves with multiple veins.
Sporangia,Structures where spores are produced.
Homosporous,Plants that produce only one type of spore.
Heterosporous,Plants that produce both male and female spores.
Rhizoids,"Root-like structures used for anchorage, not for nutrient absorption."
Sporopollenin,Durable polymer found in the walls of spores and pollen.
Thallus,"A simple plant body, undifferentiated into stems, roots, and leaves."
Lycophytes,"Seedless vascular plants with microphylls, including club mosses."
Monilophytes,"Seedless vascular plants, including ferns, horsetails, and whisk ferns."
Leptosporangia,"Sporangia developing from a single cell, found in some ferns."
Rhizome,Horizontal underground stem from which roots and shoots grow.
Sphagnum,"A type of moss found in peat bogs, known for its water retention properties."
Megaspore,A larger spore that develops into a female gametophyte.
Microspore,A smaller spore that develops into a male gametophyte.
